# Add Build Stage to Pipeline - HOL-154

### Description

This configuration is a continuation of `hol-152-pipeline` with a few modifications and additions.

**Modifications**

1. Instead of using a GitHub Access Token like we did in `hol-152-pipeline`, here we decided to create a GitHub connection on the console and use the ARN of the connection as a parameter.
2. In `hol-152-pipeline`, we deployed a native NodeJS application where no third party node packages were used.  
   Here we initally deploy an ExpressJS application and afterward a NestJS application

**Additions**

1. A `CodeBuild` Project has been created to manage the Build of the Application - a NestJS application
2. A _Build stage_ has been added to the CodePipeline

### Operation

**Before deployment**

1. **Create a Connection**

- Go to CodePipeline Console
- Go to Settings > Connections
- Click the _Create Connection_ button
- Under provider, select GitHub
- Enter Connection name
- Click the _Connect to GitHub_ button
- You will be redirected to GitHub OAuth to grant authorization to AWS Connection
- You will be redirected back to CodePipeline Console after granting the authorization
- Click on the _Install a new app_ button
- You will be redirected to GitHub where you can select your Github Connect and the repos for which you want to grant permission
- You will also be prompted to enter your GitHub Password and redirected by to CodePipeline Console
- Click the _Connect_ button
- Copy the ARN of the newly created Connetion and update the value of the `GitHubConnectionArn` parameter in the `parameters.json` or `secret-parameters.json` file.

2. **Package the intial code**  
   Package the application code and upload to S3 bucket for the BeanStalk Application.

```bash
$ bash ./deploy-express.sh
```

**Deployment**

Lint the templates

```bash
$ cfn-lint BeanstalkApp.yaml
$ cfn-lint Pipeline.yaml
```

1. Deploy the `BeanstalkApp` stacks

```bash
$ aws cloudformation deploy --stack-name BeanstalkApp --template-file BeanstalkApp.yaml --capabilities CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM
```

2. Get the `EnvironmentURL` from the `BeanstalkApp` stack outputs

```bash
$ aws cloudformation describe-stacks --stack-name BeanstalkApp --query "Stacks[0].Outputs" --no-cli-pager
```

Use the `EnvironmentURL` to test the Beanstalk application over a Browser.

3. Update the start script in the `package.json` of your `nest-app` as follows:

```json
"scripts": {
   "start": "node dist/main",
}
```

4. Deploy the NestJS application to the Beanstalk environment

```bash
$ ./deploy-nest.sh
```

Check to make sure the application content has now changed to the NestJS application. Use the `EnvironmentURL` on a browser.

5. Deploy the `Pipeline` stack

```bash
$ aws cloudformation deploy --stack-name Pipeline --template-file Pipeline.yaml --capabilities CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM --parameter-overrides file://secret-parameters.json
```

**After deployment**

**Testing**

Make a change to the repo represented by the `RepositoryName` parameter, commit the changes and watch the Pipeline get triggered.  
You can use the `EnvironmentURL` to watch the code changes come to live in the application.

**Cleanup**  
To delete the stacks

```bash
$ aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name Pipeline
$ aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name BeanstalkApp
```
