# AWS Copilot - HOL-146

### Description

This example demonstrates how to use the **Copilot CLI**.  
Copilot CLI is a tool for deploying and managing containerized application.  
All you need is a _Docker file_ in your application's directory and Copilot will automatically deploy a Fargate Cluster, Task Definition, ECS Service, VPC, Security Groups, ALB and all the other relevant resources needed to support your containerized application.  
Copilot runs _CloudFormation_ under the hood to deploy and manage the required resources.

### Operation

**Before deployment**

1. Make sure you have Docker installed and running on your machine
2. Install Copilot if you have not already done so

```bash
# Installing Copilot on MacOS
$ brew install aws/tap/copilot-cli
$ copilot --version
```

3. Download a zip version of the _ECS CLI Sample App repository_ from https://github.com/aws-samples/amazon-ecs-cli-sample-app .

4. Unzip the downloaded sample app from the previous step

**Deployment**

Run `copilot init` command inside the sample application

```bash
$ cd amazon-ecs-cli-sample-app
$ copilot init --app demo --name api --type 'Load Balanced Web Service' --dockerfile './Dockerfile' --port 80 --deploy
```

Alternatively you can run the `copilot init` command and follow the prompts to supply the required parameter as needed

```bash
$ cd amazon-ecs-cli-sample-app
$ copilot init
```

It takes about 7-15 minutes for Copilot to build out the containerized application.

Copilot will generate 4 CloudFormation templates and deploy stacks from them.  
The stack names will bear the name of the application and environment name supplied during the `init` operation.
Here are the stack created:

1. `[app-name]-[environment].yaml`
2. `[app-name]-[environment]-api.yaml`
3. `[app-name]-infrastrcuture-roles.yaml`
4. `StackSet-[app-name]-infrastrcture-[hexcode].yaml`

See the `generated-by-copilot` folder for copies of the generated templates which I have copied from the CloudFormation Console.

Copilot also generated a `copilot` directory inside your application's folder where it stores its configuration files associated with the application.  
There you will find the application `manifest.yml` and the environment `manifest.yml` files.

**After deployment**

1. Copilot uses CloudFormation under the hood
2. You can go to the _CloudFormation Console_ to take a look at the stacks created by Copilot.
3. You can run some command to access your application status with Copilot CLI

```bash
$ cd amazon-ecs-cli-sample-app
# List all you applications
$ copilot app ls
# Show application details
$ copilot app show
```

**Testing**  
At the end of the deployment you should get a message with an endoint for you application such as

```text
- Your service is accessible at http://demo-d-Publi-utrEaUV3KKXN-908994554.eu-west-2.elb.amazonaws.com over the internet.
```

Use the endpoint to access your application on a Browser.

**Cleanup**

Delete the app

```bash
$ copilot app delete
```

This deletes all the Stacks created by Copilot.
