# Launch Task and Service wuth ALB - HOL-140

### Description

This example is a continution of `hol-139-ec2-launch-type` where we created an ECS Cluster and registered an EC2 instance as a container instance.  
Here we create an ECS Task, ECS Service and an Application Load Balancer ALB.

**Note**: CloudFormation does not natively support running standalone tasks so there is no `AWS::ECS::Task` resource type.  
However, we can run a task using ECS Console, AWS CLI or Custom CloudFormation resource.  
The `RunTask.yam` template defines a custom CloudFormation resource to do just that.

### Operation

**Before deployment**  
Make sure the AMI used is an _ECS optimized AMI_ and a recent or the latest version. Old or out-dated ECS optimized AMI may not work.  
To get the latest EC2 optimized AMI

1. Go the EC2 > Images > AMI Catalog
2. Search for "ECS-Optimized"
3. Click the _AWS Marketplace AMIs_ tab
4. You may select the _Free_ filter option under _Pricing model_.
5. Select a recent AMI, for me this was "Amazon ECS-Optimized Amazon Linux 2023 (AL2023) x86_64 AMI"
6. After clicking the select button, on the pop-up check the Pricing tab. Some AMIs may have Free tier for `t2.micro` instances and paid for other larger instance.
7. Scroll down and and click the _Subscribe now_ button or the _Subscribe on instance launch_ button if needed. Some AMIs requires you to be subscribed before you can use them.
8. You may note be able to find the AMI's Id, in that case try launching a test instance on the console and searching for the AMI when you get to the AMI selection section. After selecting it, you should see the AMI Id on the summary page on the left.

Note that most ECS-optimized AMI may require you to subscribe first before you can use them.

**Deployment**

Lint the templates

```bash
$ cfn-lint Ec2LaunchType.yaml
```

Deploy the stack

```bash
$ aws cloudformation deploy --template-file Ec2LaunchType.yaml --stack-name Ec2LaunchType  --capabilities CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM --parameter-overrides file://private-parameters.json
```

**After deployment**

1. Get the `TaskDefinitionArn`, `PublicIp` and `LoadBalancerUrl` from the stack output

```bash
$ aws cloudformation describe-stacks --stack-name Ec2LaunchType --query "Stacks[0].Outputs" --no-cli-pager
```

2. Use the `LoadBalancerUrl` to access the Application using your Browser.  
   You should see the Nginx welcome page.

3. Get the Details of the running Task. We need the Private IP

```bash
# Get the task ARN
$ aws ecs list-tasks --cluster SimpleCluster --no-cli-pager
# Get the task details using the task ARN
$ aws ecs describe-tasks --cluster SimpleCluster --tasks <task-arn> > output-tasks.json
```

Note that the task only have a private IP and no public IP.

4. Search for the `privateIpv4Address` in `output-tasks.json` from the previous step.  
   SSH into the ECS Container instance using the EC2 instance `PublicIp` and make a `curl` request against the private IP of the running task.  
   You should get the Nginx Welcome page as a response for the `curl` request.

**Testing**

**Debug Error**

1. A task may fail to run in an EC2 container instance because the instance does not have enough resource - `CPU` and `memory`

```bash
# Get the ContainerInstanceArn of the EC2 instance
$ aws ecs list-container-instances --cluster SimpleCluster
# Use the ContainerInstanceArn to get the instance details
$ aws ecs describe-container-instances --cluster SimpleCluster --container-instances <container-instance-arn> > container-instance.json
```

Check the `containerInstances.remainingResources` array to see the remaining CPU and memory available to run another task in the EC2 instance.  
The `containerInstances.attributes` array shows what attribute the instance can accomodate for a Task definition. For example the Task Definition's `PlacementConstraints` must be compatible with the `containerInstances.attributes`.

**Cleanup**

To delete the stack

```bash
$ aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name Ec2LaunchType
```
